Supplementary Figure 1. Percent fluorescence, relative to the injected fluoresceine dye aliquot’s fluorescence, of various volumes of water extracted by syringe either on the opposite side of the branch from the dye injection (a) or at colony peripheries (b). Fluorescence higher than the background water was not observed for extraction volumes of 1.6 ml or smaller.
Supplementary Figure 2. Photosymbiont MA plots. The plots show the genes' mean normalized counts vs. log2fold change, where red dots represent significant DE genes, for North-South and East-South comparisons.  
Supplementary Figure 3. Normalized mV measurements as proxies of DO measured along transects from inside to just outside five coral colonies growing in the same nursery as the colony examined at high spatial resolution for transcriptional, physiological, and morphological differences. Measurements for each colony were standardized to the ‘Periphery’ measurement of each transect for statistical analysis of DO differences by general location within a colony.  
Supplementary Figure 4. Single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) identity by state. SNP identity by state heatmap showing the level of SNP identity between samples (0-1.0 indicates 0-100% identity), based on the Broad Institute’s GATK.
Supplementary Figure 5. Interaction heatmap of host genes. The heatmap on the left shows the relative expression values of a subset of S. pistillata genes that demonstrate a significant interaction between base-tip (position factor) versus middle-bottom (ring height factor). The heatmap on the right represents the log2FC of the interactions. For clarity, only interactions for tips and bases are shown.  
Supplementary Figure 6. Select measures of photophysiology were not significantly different between branch locations across the single S. pistillata colony measured here, as chlorophyll content (a, c) and photosymbiont abundance (b, d) by either surface area (a, b) or total protein (c, d).
Supplementary Figure 7. Gene expression patterns of putative toxins as log2FC (a, c), and log10FPKM (b, d) between branch tips and junctions (a, b) and junctions and bases (c, d). Only significantly DE toxin genes are shown (p<0.05). An uncharacterized gene, for which reciprocal BLAST hits suggest it is a SCRiP (Supplementary Table 14), is noted with a red star (b).
Supplementary Figure 8. Reciprocal protein blast information (a) and sequence alignment (b) for the D-Pocilopotoxin-Spi1 in (Ben-Ari et al., 2018) (Stylophora_pistillata_9725 from (Bhattacharya et al., 2016)) and the gene27671 (rna35563) annotated here as DELTA-stichotoxin-She4a-like (NCBI accession number XP_022777760.1).
Supplementary Figure 9. Gene expression patterns of known biomineralization-related genes as log2FC (a, c), and log10FPKM (b, d) between branch tips and junctions (a, b) and junctions and bases (c, d). Only significantly DE biomineralization genes are shown (p<0.05).
